Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
AURUM PRESENTS
MOZAMBIQUE OCTOBER 19. 1986
[in Portuguese] I don't remember
how many years have passed.
It was a long time ago. But I remember
being young. I remember everything.
[in English] This is a huge
step toward our great victory.
A great victory! It's a great victory!
[in Portuguese] We wanted all the white
people out of Africa. And we did.
We became independent. But the whites from
neighboring countries didn't like it. There was a war.
And we would have lost. But help came to us.
I can't wait to get home.
Oh. come on. Imagine. we'll
be back and it'll be October.
Rain. slush. And here you
have sunshine. warmth. and fruit.
And there's your wife and daughter.
Oh. Raul. friend. tell me. would
you like to go to the Soviet Union?
How about a swap? I'll
stay here for the winter and
you go to the Soviet Union.
And in summer. we'll swap.
- Did you see the snow?
- Snow?
- Yes.
- No. I don't know.
To the Soviets!
That's right!
[in Portuguese] At first. I didn't
believe these people because
they were white too. But then
I saw that they were different.
[in English] Board Charlie-nine.
Charlie-alpha-alpha. have passed the Curla radio beacon.
Estimated time of landing in
Maputo 19:25. Ready to descend.
[in English] It's all right.
Do you think it'll work?
It's too risky a scheme.
We don't have any other options.
But if we pull this off. it'll be a
unique operation. The autopilot is
guiding the plane to the beacon signal.
No one has ever tried to trick the autopilot.
And that's exactly what we're going to do.
At 7:05 p.m. the radio beacon in
Maputo will go out. We have one minute
to launch ours. So the autopilot
will lead the Russians right to us.
So we're all set.
Fine.
Oh. Raul. here's one for you. by the way.
They were white. too. but they were
different. They honestly wanted to help us.
Oleg. what's with all the twists and turns?
That's where the beacon is pointing.
- It's weird. why isn't it going straight?
- The gears aren't working. There's no light!
I can't see the lane!
- Maybe there's something wrong with their power.
- Fuck knows!
- Pull!
- I'm pulling!
[in English] Fantastic!
Listen. Bill. did you really have
doubts? Or. on the contrary. were
you hoping it wouldn't work? It's
just our job. Turn off the beacon.
That's it. let's go!
Whoever finds President Samora
Machel's corpse first gets 500 Rand.
Found it! Found it!
Good job! This time
victory is ours. Mr. Machel!
[in Portuguese] There were ten
survivors in that crash. One of them was me.
I remember everything.
MOZAMBIQUE MBAO VILLAGE
SEPTEMBER 2019
Look at this.
Here. that's me. And these are the
Soviets! They were like gods to us.
Dad. you've told me that a hundred times!
Jose. where are you going?
To get water. Mom. Grandpa's
repeating that story again.
That must be the hundredth time.
Hi.
- Hello.
- How are you?
I'm great.
- Jose! Did you do your homework?
- We didn't have any homework at school.
Stop lying! Go do your
homework! Or I'll tell my mother!
Okay. okay.
Here! Pass it to me!
You gotta learn how to
play first! Then come back!
- That's it. go on. get out!
- All right!
I'm gonna be a great soccer
player. just like Eusebio. Got it?
That's it. get out of here!
Go away! Go away!
- Wait!
- Where are you going? Stay calm. don't move!
Where are you coming from?
It was some bandits. They killed
our mayor and his whole family.
They told us to leave or they'd kill us all!
- And the police?
- They were all killed too.
Jose! Go home now! And warn
your mother! How many were there?
There must have been at least
a hundred. Armed to the teeth.
Please everybody go home and stay calm!
Flora. hurry up!
I said I'm not going anywhere without you!
Don't you understand? I'm
the chief of police. I have to stay!
Or we'll all have nowhere to go!
What if you get killed? Then we will have
nowhere to go. only the
children won't have a father!
- And I won't have a husband!
- I said pack it up! Flora!
Get everyone out of here!
Quickly!
Jose! Follow me. quickly! Luis. help Grandpa!
To the church! Run!
Calm down! Sit down! Listen to me!
Don't you worry. Everything will be
all right. God will protect us! Stay calm!
Calm down! Sit down! God will protect us!
Brothers and sisters. we must
not be afraid! God will protect us!
Let us pray.
Let us sing and dance loudly.
so that God may hear us!
Come to me. my boy. Don't be
afraid of anything. Sing with me.
Give me the machete!
Another victory.
Let's see if anyone's still alive.
Hey you. get up!
Halt! They wanted to hide! What do we
do with them. commander? Shoot them?
On your knees!
Everybody! Everybody on your knees! On
your knees! You're lucky. You stayed alive.
So you have a choice: come with us
and become great warriors or die like dogs.
If you keep quiet. I'll kill the
next one. Do I make myself clear?
Don't! I'm coming with you!
- And you?
- Me too!
- Yes. he agrees too.
That's my brother. he
wants to be a warrior. So do I.
That's great!
[in Portuguese] On your
knees! Hands behind your head!
Well. that's it.
SUDAN. RUSSIAN MILITARY BASE IN SUDAN
And using a combat weapon adds spice to your training!
Is everybody okay?
Andrei! They should
have learned the alphabet
first. but you're giving them War and Peace!
Granite! Gray calling.
Let Granite go. But only for two weeks.
He'll find out what's going
on and then he'll come here.
And here we will make further decisions.
I'll send Pasik with him. he'll make
sure Granite doesn't do anything heroic.
Is he there?
So here's the situation. There's
a beautiful country in Africa called
Mozambique. Well. I don't have to
explain the geography. I hope you know it.
Anyway. in the early 2000s. a
large gas field was discovered
in northern Mozambique. Now
gangs have settled there.
sworn allegiance to the Islamic
State and are harassing civilians.
The local security forces
are not able to cope with it.
The Mozambican authorities have
asked Russia and Sudan for help.
We had helped Mozambique during Soviet
times. our advisers were there from
'76 to '91. We trained the local
army. everything is in the materials.
you can read it later. I warn you:
no fighting and no heroic deeds.
Only military and police
counseling and training. Understand?
- Understood. Borisych. When do we leave?
- Yesterday. as usual!
MOZAMBIQUE
CABO DELGADO PROVINCE
- Get up! Get up!
- I'm tired.
Warriors can't get tired! If you
are not a warrior. we don't need you!
- Get up. I said!
- Let's go. let's go. or they'll kill us.
The authorities in the capital are trying to
trick us! The president wants to deceive us!
There is gas here on our land!
The president and his henchmen will get money.
big money! He will be
selling gas to white people.
And we won't get anything. But we won't
sit around and shut up like everybody else!
We will not let them take
from us what should be ours!
We will manage our own land!
And those who will not come with us will die!
These people are ready to be slaves!
But we are not slaves! We are warriors!
We are warriors! We are warriors!
USA MARATHON FIRM OFFICE
[in English] So. after long negotiations we were able to come to
an agreement with the government
of Mozambique about the gas fields.
According to this agreement.
the profits from gas production will
be distributed as follows. Mozambique
gets 40%. our company gets 60%.
And you talk about this as your
victory? We usually leave the natives 20%.
Dear Ethan. in this case. we're
talking about very large deposits.
The total number of gas reserves
is 182 trillion cubic meters.
Do you think we're the only ones
who would want that piece of the pie?
And only because we offered
the Mozambican authorities terms
that were not very favorable to
us. they signed a treaty with us.
Thank you. Jane. Yes.
Ethan. you're right. of course.
The terms are
not very favorable for us.
But who's to say those terms can't be changed?
I'll tell you more. we're
already changing them.
And our guest. Colonel Lionell.
is going to tell us all about it.
The head of a private military
company stationed in South Africa.
I think in a couple or three months the
Mozambican authorities will agree to 10%.
How is that possible?
Possible. It's a simple
mechanism. Put the president
of the country before a
choice: either 10% or nothing.
Thank you. Colonel.
You're welcome.
Thank you. commander.
- What are you looking at?
- We're hungry!
Yeah? Come here! Quickly!
Didn't you hear what you
were told? Get up. get up!
Food is for warriors!
You are not warriors yet.
Don't touch my brother!
You're brave. aren't you?
You probably want to kill me?
My men killed your brothers. But this is war.
Your father was a policeman.
right? He just took the wrong side.
He was protecting the government.
And our government is robbing us.
Tell me. isn't it fair that
some people live very
well and some people live
very poorly? It's not fair!
But we have lived injustice
for many. many years.
Don't you want it to be different?
But to change the future.
you have to renounce the past.
Only the strong are willing
to do that. Are you strong?
MOZAMBIQUE. NACALA AIRPORT
OCTOBER 2019
[in Portuguese] Everything all right. General?
Yes...Just thinking.
Greetings.
My name is Miguel. I'll be your interpreter.
The General is very pleased that you
have responded to our request for help.
The General hopes that our cooperation
will strengthen the morale of our army.
Don't worry. we will.
Well. the main thing is to
have something to strengthen.
What do we do next. commander?
Do we go to the next village?
Let's go. But first. we have to get weapons.
We ain't gonna last long with
machetes and old machine guns.
Where can we get one? Police stations?
There aren't many guns there either.
I know where we get the guns.
The military will send a
detachment here to look for us.
We'll take it from them.
We're going to the city of Mueda now.
That's where our military base is.
The town is in the province of Cabo Delgado.
And there are no Muslim
fighters operating there.
They are killing or kicking the villagers out.
The General says they are very violent.
They kill women and children. and cut
off the heads and Adam's apple of the men.
That's their ritual. They're savages.
A month and a half ago
we wiped out 200 fighters.
Can we go there and see it for ourselves?
The General says he doesn't have that kind of
authority. He already said more than he had to.
Why did you agree to go with
them? They killed our parents.
That's right.
If we hadn't gone. they
would have killed us too.
It would have been
better if they had killed us.
You're just a kid. you
don't understand anything.
Yes. and also. I brought
you what you asked for.
Great stuff. straight from Tanzania.
Come with me. There's a job for you.
Fine. but I've got another thing
for you to do: follow up on someone.
Stop!
Give them machetes! Let them show
what kind of future warriors they are!
This tree right here. Cut it down!
Let's see how you hold a machete!
MUEDA
MOZAMBIQUE ARMED FORCES BASE
The militants are operating in
about this area. Not far from this village.
I see.
What about the number of militants?
A lot of them. About a thousand.
Where do they get their guns. do you know?
We don't know.
The General says he sent a
detachment to the area early this morning.
And he is confident that
they will find the fighters.
I mean. if I understand correctly. that's
all the information we have at the moment?
Yes.
That's all for now.
There is a police base in Mocimboa da Praia.
They took a prisoner yesterday.
Maybe he can tell us
where the fighters are hiding.
Or he won't.
Well. then you go there
and you find out on the spot.
You can check out the local police too.
Yeah. yeah. That makes sense.
Because I thought you were gonna send me away.
- God forbid. You imagined it.
- Yeah?
I guess it's not a
military base. it's a circus.
Yeah. And we're in an arena.
What the fuck are the tactics?
You gotta start with discipline here.
We got plenty of time for that. don't we?
How long? Two weeks?
Come on. guys! We'll teach
them. In an accelerated program.
So. guys. the tasks for the near future are
as follows: work with the personnel. find out
the level of training. identify problems.
the ability to handle weapons.
You know. the usual.
Slava! You're on medical review.
Check the presence and
absence of medical supplies.
- ﻿Well. you know.
- Got it.
Seryoga. you have a special assignment.
Get a group of fighters and go
to Mocimboa da Praia with Pasik.
Pasik will tell you all about it on the way.
All right. men. let's get to work.
CABO DELGADO PROVINCE
10 KM FROM MBAO VILLAGE
I sent a group to the
village of Mbao in the morning.
They should be close by now.
I understand. General.
We're waiting for them now.
Stop!
Hurry up. hurry up! Gather your weapons!
Kill the survivors. take no prisoners!
Now we have guns and cars!
Now our victory is close! We should celebrate!
Get everything you need for the holiday.
Commander. look who I
found! He was hiding in the car.
Kill him?
You wanted to hide?
No. we'll take it with us.
That's our trophy. I want him alive.
General. I wanted to warn you.
There's a group of Russians coming your way.
MOCIMBOA DA PRAIA. MOZAMBIQUE POLICE BASE
They want to talk to that prisoner
of war you captured yesterday.
Thank you for calling. We
need to solve this problem.
The Russians must not find out anything.
It's not a problem. He
won't say anything anymore.
- Are you sure?
- Of course.
It's our common interest.
I think they're here.
Don't worry. my friend. I'll take care of it.
The General is glad that you
decided to help us with
the training of our staff.
We will help. of course.
We're told you have a prisoner of war.
We'd like to talk to him.
Unfortunately. it's no
longer possible to talk to him.
That's the prisoner right there.
He tried to escape this morning.
Took the gun from the
convoy. Had to shoot and kill.
There's a tradition in Africa that
everybody gets killed on the run.
Move it! Move! Move your feet.
Hey. you. come here!
Everybody be quiet!
You're going to have a big day today.
Today you can become real warriors.
But to do so. you must prove that
you are ready to become warriors.
Bring him here!
Move! On your knees!
This is our enemy!
And enemies must be killed.
If you don't kill your
enemy first. he'll kill you.
You have a weapon.
So do what the warriors have to do.
If you are not a warrior. I will kill you.
Well?
Come on. hit it!
Hit it!
Now you!
Don't.
He can't survive alone in the jungle.
Can you show me exactly
where your unit was attacked?
He can't give out that information
without management approval.
General. I think you're
fighting the wrong war.
We're here to help you. but
you don't want to say anything.
You got 25 men killed.
There! You don't talk like a fish on ice.
It's about here. near Mbao village.
This village was recently
attacked by insurgents.
So tomorrow a small group
with your fighters will move in.
Let's take a walk to the village.
Andrei. where the hell are you going?We
just came here to check things out.
We'll check it out.
And we'll take the general with us. maybe
he'll remember something else on the way. Yes?
The General says that's impossible.
He has a meeting tomorrow
with his superiors in the capital.
Well. if it's with the management. it
goes without saying. Let's go. let's go!
You proved today that you're warriors.
But a warrior must be strong!
That's why you have to
take power from your enemies!
A man's power is concentrated here.
To take it away. you have to eat it!
Eat it!
Where are your hot guys?
Ask about something
lighter. Overheated. I guess.
Andrei. you seem like a smart guy.
Look at them. They don't give a shit.
They're not allowed to shoot.
they're not allowed to have guns.
And you want them to get
blown up on the firing range.
- Well. where are your fighters?
- Major said they don't want to go.
They're very afraid.
OK. let's go. Let's go
enlighten their dim bulbs.
Good. comrade?
It's good food here.
Freeze! Put the gun on the table.
Tell him what to do.
What do you need a gun for?
I take your food away from you
and you're throwing napkins at me.
Is your wife pretty?
I'll take her too.
Here!
Payback.
Well?
What are you looking at?
Are you ready to give up everything
- your house. your wife. your country?!
Bon appétit!
Just a minute.
I'm ready to go! And so are my soldiers!
Effective.
Yeah. yeah. They're the heroes here.
And then they shit themselves and run.
MAPUTO
On what terms did you
contract with the Russians?
The Russians didn't come under contract.
Our president has reached
out to friendly countries.
The Russians came from Sudan.
Russians... The Russians don't change.
I already met them here in the eighties.
True. they were called Soviets back then.
I remember that year. I'm aware of that.
Weren't you the one who caused that
plane crash when President Machel died?
And the Russians did a 180-degree turn then.
That's right. the Soviets.
Then they stopped being Soviet
and decided to have capitalism.
But they don't understand shit about it.
For Russians. an idea is more
important than money.
Give them an idea and they're willing
to work for free. Just for the idea.
I think you're worried about nothing.
First of all. the Russians
are only here for two weeks.
Second. they don't know
our country. our nature.
They've never fought in the
jungle. They can't handle militants.
That's the little things.
That's not what you're talking about. General.
Do you know who Lenin is? Do you see the sign?
I do.
It's a Russian. Communist.
There are streets named
after Russians in your country.
Think about it.
Think about it. They're dangerous.
CABO DELGADO PROVINCE
10 KM FROM MBAO VILLAGE
Well. the situation is clear.
They fell a tree. set up an ambush.
- Knew the locals would be here.
- And it looks like they knew beforehand.
The news is not good: they
have DShK and RPG now.
- "Granite" to "Baikal".
- On the line!
- Start the chopper.
- Copy.
Did you see that?
Maybe that's their tactic.
Well. the quad can't help us here.
Give me the lighter.
We'll have to walk with our
feet. How far to the village?
It's about 10 kilometers.
It's better to go by car.
No. you can see and hear the car.
If the insurgents are around.
we'll give ourselves away.
We could be walking into an ambush. We're
moving through the jungle along the river.
The Major wants to stay
here to guard the cars.
Somehow that's what I immediately thought.
And I'd like to go with you.
Are you sure? There won't
be anybody to guard the cars.
I'm sure.
Good.
Hey. rattlesnake!
I'm tired.
Can we take a breather?
Come on. we're not even halfway there.
It's very hard.
Okay. you just sit here and rest.
We'll pick you up on the way back.
Are you kidding me? You can't
walk that long. It doesn't work that way.
It happens. it happens. Sure it does.
Forsage. Bumblebee. stay and watch.
Roger.
You just wait for me. And I'll be back.
Just keep waiting.
Okay.
Mom.
Grandpa.
I'm your father now! I'm your family!
Here.
Cover me.
- I got it!
Go!
I got it.
- I got it!
- Go!
Go!
I got it. Go!
[in Portuguese] Soviets...
He says he knows who you are.
What do you mean?
[in Portuguese] That's you.
So. these look like our guys
that served here in Mozambique.
- Do you remember when that plane crashed?
- Yeah. I remember. I remember.
[in Portuguese] That's
my grandfather right there.
And I think that's you.
Yes?
And that's you. Right?
And that's you.
I got it.
We all look the same to him.
Yeah.
He says his grandfather told him about you.
Says he prayed to God and you came.
Soviets...
Listen. comrade. maybe
you know something about
the militants who attacked your village. huh?
They killed his whole family.
Tough. Well. listen. maybe you
know where they're hiding now?
No. no.
Hey. amigo!
There's something you're not telling me. kid.
Come on. guys. don't push
the kid. He'll tell you later.
Let's go. let's go! You
can stay at our base for now.
Wait. he forgot his picture.
Stop it! Stop it!
Ribbon. stop for a moment.
Jose wants to go out.
- Hey!
- Hey. where are you going?
Oh. come on...
Hey. where are you going?
- Kid!
- Boy!
- Are we gonna catch up?
- Stop. men! What if it's a setup?
- Weird kid.
- I agree.
Let's go back.
MOCIMBOA DA PRAIA
Sounds like we have a local fan.
Black Jeep in the back.
I noticed it the last time I saw it.
Attention. convoy! We got a tail!
He followed us and filmed us!
We should check the car and the phone!
Sit down!
Says you made a mistake.
He's a simple citizen. he
didn't do anything illegal.
The General says you are very suspicious.
It's just a civilian.
А... a civilian.
Okay.
Well. tell him it's gonna be
okay. so he doesn't have to worry.
Stingray! Go get the battery from his car.
Oh. and by the way.
don't forget the alligator clips.
Ask him if he has any chronic illnesses.
Is there anything wrong with his heart?
- He's very sick!
- OK.
Let him take his shirt off.
Where. where are you going?
- See. they're talking.
- Wait a minute. wait a minute!
You have no right to torture our citizen.
See. he says he'll tell
you everything he knows.
That's the way it should
have been a long time ago.
Who asked you to follow us?
Why were you filming us with your phone?
Who were you carrying the guns to. and why
were you carrying a
grenade launcher in the car?
[in Portuguese] General!
The Russians got our man. I'm afraid
he's going to tell them everything.
[in Portuguese] Luis! Luis! I'm right here!
How did you get here?
Run away!
Remember. my grandfather
told me about the Soviets?
- They're here again!
- What kind of nonsense is that?
- Who's here?
- The Soviets! We gotta go!
These people are dead!
No. I'm telling you!
They're here and they're
looking for these bandits!
And they might kill you.
We have to run...
Musa. the boys got away! We gotta go get them!
They can't get away!
Hurry. hurry!
Get up! Luis. get up! We gotta go!
Your prisoner said the
militant camp is located here.
Can you get across the river here?
No. no. That's impossible! It's a deep river!
I see. So it's not an option.
All right. let's move out.
confirm camp location.
work the 120 mm mortars.
go in. clear it. that's it.
Yeah... If their 120mm even fire at all.
- Two mortars are working.
- You see. it's not so bad.
Two out of 30. It's like a
sports lottery or something.
It's fine. It's okay.
Waiting confirmation from the Granite group.
Granite to Lemon. A sentry.
Right up in the tree.
Kuban's with me. the rest are in place.
Copy.
Go!
Let's go back.
Mortars are canceled.
What happened. why?
The kid they picked up at church yesterday.
He's in the cage. tied
up. I guess he got caught.
If we use mortars. you know.
we'll blow him up too.
Are you ready to take
it upon yourself? I am not.
Andrei. are you all right in the head?
Is that your son? I don't remember
any local kids in your biography.
- Listen...
- No. you listen!
I didn't like this whole storming
thing from the beginning.
It's a decoy! It's a setup!
What if there's more civilians in there?
You want to fight. fight.
I won't stop you from it.
But you're putting your people at
risk because of some kid on the street.
Need I remind you of the
three-to-one ratio on the offensive?
And the likely percentage of casualties. hmm?
It doesn't work in the jungle.
Listen. Pasik. if we fought by
textbooks. we'd all be dead by now.
I'm for assault without mortars. too.
Fuck you... Mortars are canceled.
Civilians could get hurt.
Maybe you Russians are
willing to risk your fighters.
But I'm not.
Well. we'll ask them now. Let's go translate.
Well. you're not going
either? Are you scared?
Fear is normal. Everybody's scared. Always.
Before the fight. too.
But you can only win
if you conquer your fear.
And to make a long story short. boys.
In war. it's not the guns that decide. it's the balls!
The one with the toughest balls wins.
Well. is anyone coming. or
are you going straight home?
The Major says you can go
wherever you want. they stay here.
Well. that's right. Somebody's
got to guard the mortars. right?
By the way. comrade. may I borrow some
coke for the cause of revolution from you?
All right. come on. That's it. take it all!
Andrei. what do you need Coca-Cola for?
I got an idea.
Watch this. men.
We're approaching in a group from the east.
When we find the camp. we split up.
My group on the right.
Kubic's group on the left.
Their retreat will probably be
to the southwest. along the river.
And that's where Pasik's
group will be waiting for them.
We'd better keep the allies in
check. or they won't leave us any work.
I open fire first and
that's the signal to assault.
We'll try to approach as quietly as possible.
so we'll load up the silencers.
And remember. vanity is
the sister of you know what.
Concrete. cover me.
We'll slow down the enemy
here if they go for the allies.
Kubic in position.
- Kuban group in position.
- Copy.
How are you?
Alive!
Where to! Freeze!
Hey. get back. get back!
Alive.
Alive. alive!
"Granite" to "Pasik".
- Copy.
- There are 40 insurgents heading toward the river.
Fuck.
And our dear General said it was
too deep and impossible to cross.
So. Slavka! How are we doing?
MUEDA
MOZAMBIQUE MILITARY BASE HOSPITAL
If you don't yell. there will be progress.
All right. all right. I won't get in the way.
You ran away from us because of your brother?
He was afraid that you would go and kill the
militants and kill his brother.
but his brother is not a militant.
They took them out of the village. he
ran away and his brother stayed behind.
It wasn't his fault.
Why are you guys so excited?
He'll live.
Happily ever after.
Well... you should have just said so.
It's okay.
No. later.
Andrei. do you want to be honest?
I don't even know why we came here.
If we hadn't come. somebody else would have.
And those others just don't give
a damn about the local population.
But you see. those other
natives don't give a rat's ass either.
They'd sell the country
for a capful of breadcrumbs!
Do you want to make them love
their country? That's impossible!
No. I can't make them do it.
You can teach then.
Andrei... stop it already.
I don't want to.
MARERE SUBURBS
[in Portuguese] There's water.
[in Portuguese] Commander. I need a doctor.
I don't want to die. commander!
You know I can't help you now.
You have failed in your task.
commander.
The Russians wiped out your camp
and more than half your fighters.
Tell your boss we're
going to rectify the situation.
I don't think you can do that.
Now. Mamudo. listen to me very carefully.
From now on you will obey this
man. his name is Omar.
He will be your commanding officer.
And together you will destroy the Russians.
[in English] There are only thirty of them.
But that's thirty professionals.
I can do it myself.
This is an order.
SUDAN. RUSSIAN MILITARY BASE IN SUDAN
Gazik. why the fuck did you even go to the camp. huh?
What did I tell you? What was your mission?
To study the situation
and train the local fighters.
- Well. it was decided.
- Who decided? Granite?
Well. it was our joint decision.
Stop defending Granite.
I don't need you guys playing heroes.
No one's playing heroes. Just working.
- All right. what's the result?
- We killed about 40 fighters.
- And an equal number more went down.
- Good job. what can I say. All right.
I'll be there tomorrow.
We'll figure it out on the spot.
Don't do anything until I get there. okay?
- Copy.
- Copy. over.
[in Arabic] There are
three villages here-Mbao.
Limalo and Seta. We have to
lure the Russians here in Limalo.
We'll set some houses on fire in the village.
When the Russians come up. we'll meet them.
[in Portuguese] I would
have done things differently.
I would wait for the
Russians at this intersection.
[in Arabic] I didn't ask you.
You and your men can go home
and wait for the Russians there.
[in Portuguese] You think
you are a great commander?
I hear you. You do it
your way. I'll do it my way.
I suggest we get some
local fighters to patrol the
road while we go through
the jungle in a few groups.
What makes you think
they'll come out to the road?
They won't be able to
sit in the jungle for long.
And on the road is the best
way to move. The insurgents
got wounded. the
nearest hospital is in Marere.
I suggest we use Pamir's group.
There are already local fighters.
What's the use of them?
It's not that bad. In the case of the
hospital. we're better off with our own forces.
If the insurgents go after
the locals. they'll screw them over.
- You're not worried about your guys?
- I'm sure about my guys.
Shall we go see the general?
Thank you.
Wow. Cool.
MARERE. CITY HOSPITAL.
That's weird. where are the people. huh?
Cornerstone to the right.
Zenith - straight ahead. Forward.
It looks like everything's in place.
nothing's been touched. but people are gone.
That's weird.
Ah. there you are.
Easy. easy. easy. easy. easy. Give me that.
Well. cheers.
Hey. everybody. I see smoke at three o'clock.
Local people are leaving the villages.
There are two accesses to this village.
We divide into two groups.
Pasik and Kuban. you come
up from the main road with
the Allies. and we'll come up the other side.
- Copy.
LIMALO VILLAGE
I can feel it in my ass. they're
waiting for us. Let's turn around
and leave them with a surprise.
prepare the machine gun.
Come on.
EASTERN EDGE OF THE LIMALO VILLAGE
[in Arabic] You two.
Go check out what's going on over there.
WESTERN EDGE OF THE LIMALO VILLAGE
Well. men. here we go.
[in Portuguese] We were told to go home.
But today we're going
to celebrate our victory.
We don't care who wins in this village.
They fight among themselves.
and we will meet them here.
Are you ready to avenge our brothers?
Yes. commander!
Clear.
Granite!
- Copy.
- All in one piece. men?
We are!
- Pasik!
- Yes.
Good.
Check all the buildings.
Come in from the east.
[in Portuguese] Halt. Halt!
So? Congratulations on your victory.
Tell your men to check the
bodies. IDs. weapons. and so on.
And we're going to the base.
Gazik. Let's go. men. it's all here.
Well guys. well done. We did it
without a loss. Time to go home.
RPG!
All out of the car.
♪ We haven't gotten any kinder or meaner. ♪
♪ ﻿We distinguish between day and night. ♪
Baikal!
♪ We buried ourselves. not sparing ♪
♪ ourselves. cutting off the unnecessary away. ♪
Sniper!
♪ ﻿Our squad is stronger than granite! ♪
♪ Tougher than granite. in hand-to-hand combat. ♪
♪ ﻿Our troop stands stronger than granite! ♪
♪ And may God watch over our souls. ♪
♪ ﻿We stand as the pedestals on ♪
♪ the graves of our departed fathers. ♪
♪ ﻿We have learned to forget our sentiments... ♪
Get the boys out of here.
♪ ...to look death in the face. ♪
Pasik. get back to the car.
♪ Our unit stands stronger than granite! ♪
♪ ﻿Tougher than granite in hand-to-hand combat. ♪
♪ ﻿Our troop stands stronger than granite! ♪
♪ And may God watch over our souls. ♪
Stop firing. Let's pull back. Get in the car.
Pasik to Pamir. We know about
the ambush. we're coming to help.
Copy. hurry up.
Ah. fuck.
Fuck you.
- Listening.
- What's the situation over there?
Steadily tense.
We got stuck a little bit.
- Went back from Limalo. got ambushed.
- Great. Any casualties?
- No one was killed.
- Wounded?
I can't say for sure. No
heavy. five wounded so far:
Lemon. Tobol. Bumblebee. Baikal and Granite.
Fuck.
Tell Granite to call me.
'Tranit' to 'Pasik'. Call "Gray." he asked.
Copy.
Damn.
[in Portuguese] Russians
are taking away the wounded.
Victory is in our hands.
There's not much left.
Let's go.
We have to finish off the Russians.
♪ ﻿Our squad is stronger than granite! ♪
♪ Tougher than granite. in hand-to-hand combat. ♪
♪ ﻿Our troop stands stronger than granite! ♪
♪ And may God watch over our souls. ♪
Granite. sniper works from a tree.
- Yeah. I got it. Granite. you okay?
- I'm okay. get the boys out of here!
♪ Let the next generation come and ♪
♪ the darkness gathers over the meaning. ♪
♪ ﻿We cannot be torn from these contexts. ♪
♪ Where there is friend. and traitor. and foe. ♪
♪ ﻿Our troop stands stronger than granite! ♪
♪ Tougher than granite. in hand-to-hand combat. ♪
♪ And may God watch over our souls. ♪
Pamir. where did you come from?
- Shot.
- What took you so long?
- Well. sorry. traffic lights.
- That's a compelling reason.
"Granite" to "Pasik." Are you okay?
I'm fine.
- Kuban. Kuban. you hear?
- What?
- There's something wrong with him.
- Let's go.
Damn it. You should be in the hospital. man.
I'm fine. I'll just catch my
breath and be on my way.
Look at me. Granite.
Stingray to Pasik. Get the car here. quick.
- Granite is seriously wounded.
- Copy.
Great job. guys.
Pasik to Grey. How copy?
Copy. On approach. Granite is with us.
- Give me Granite.
- He can't talk yet.
- Alive. heavily wounded.
- What's the nature of the wounds?
Hand. two to the chest and
the femoral artery is severed.
- Take it out.
- We'll try.
[in Portuguese] And I
know it's gonna be okay now.
The Soviets. they're like
gods. I knew they would save us.
They come down from heaven
and defeat all the fighters.
Grandpa was right. he was telling me
about the Soviets and I didn't believe him.
We found the wounded fighter
outside the hospital in Marere.
He told us about the ambush.
We were almost there in time.
Lost a lot of blood. Artery's severed.
This sucks. guys. We were a little late.
Message from Granite. It just
came in. "Borisych. we got in a bit
of a jam on the way to Mueda.
Worked out fine. See you tonight."
So now we meet. Andrei.
Probably have to let his
loved ones know somehow.
Everyone close to him is already here.
See you around.
MAPUTO
[in English] The Russians are running
out of time today. They are leaving.
I have already talked to the management.
I convinced them that the
Russians will be of little use.
So I hope they don't come here again.
That's good news.
What do you plan to do next? Mamudo
and Omar's groups have been destroyed.
I don't see the problem. We will assemble
new groups that will solve our problems.
Major is very grateful for your help.
And he says you've taught us a lot.
Major says the main group of militants
in Cabo Delgado has been eliminated.
And he's confident that our
soldiers won't be afraid of the enemy.
Well. boys. let's go back to Sudan.
Then to Russia. Try to get some rest.
Good.
In a month's time. a business trip.
Don't piss yourself. guys.
[in Portuguese] Thank you. Soviets.
IN NOVEMBER 2019. RUSSIAN INSTRUCTORS LEFT MOZAMBIQUE. AFTER WHICH MILITANTS OF THE ANSAR
AL-SUNNA GROUP (BANNED IN THE RF) CONTINUED TO ATTACK VILLAGES AND TOWNS IN CABO DELGADO PROVINCE.
THE ARMED FORCES OF MOZAMBIQUE DETACHMENT. TRAINED BY THE GRANITE GROUP. WAS COMPLETELY WIPED OUT IN
MARCH 2021. THE SOLDIERS OF THE DETACHMENT DIED HEROICALLY DEFENDING THE CITY OF PALMA FROM THE MILITANTS.
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm